CAIP-275: remove extra request and expand on chain property usage (#292)
ChainAgnostic/CAIPs: CAIPs/caip-275.md

  "properties": {
    "address": {
      "type": "string",

>       "description": "The wallet address requested by the user. This can be from any chain. And can be an externally owned account or a smart wallet"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "description": "The wallet address requested by the user. This can be from any chain and can be an externally owned account or smart wallet"
```

    },
    "chain": {
      "type": "string",

>       "description": "The blockchain id as specified in CAIP-2. This is only required when the wallet is a smart account in a specific chain. If not provided, it is assumed the wallet is an EOA that is not on any chain."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "description": "The blockchain id as specified in CAIP-2. This is only required when the wallet is a smart account on a specific chain. If not provided, it is assumed the wallet is an EOA that is not on any chain."
```

  - `wc`, to trigger a connection with the wallet using [Wallet Connect][]
  - `mwp`, to discover and communicate with the wallet usign [Mobile Wallet Protocol][]

> Those values are not exhaustive. Meaning they can be extended as new options arise or become popular.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those values are not exhaustive, which means they can be extended as new options arise or become popular.
```

3. Second authentication flow indicates that it has to run on `mobile`, and using [Mobile Wallet Protocol][] (indicated with the key `mwp`) application has to find another app that responds to the universal link `https://universal-link.wallet.com/`.
4. Last authentication flow does not impose a platform to run on because it does not specify any, so it will be valid everywhere. It tries to set up a [Wallet Connect][] connection to the URI `http://www.wallet.com/auth`. When this authentication flow is triggered, the URI will be opened in a new browser window passing `address`, `domain` and `wcUri` as query params with the resolved address, the domain name and [Wallet Connect][] URI respectively. As this flow requires user action (connecting the wallet at the URI) this step will never be skipped as long as the application supports [Wallet Connect][].

> ## Standard Authentication flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Standard authentication flows
```

Reviewer: Just for consistency - if you want to fully title-capitalize, do that instead - but one or the other.

}
```

As this authentication flow calls for the `injected` extension, without specifying which one, it should use the default wallet provider at the browser.

> For EVM chains, this would be `window.ethereum`.

Reviewer 2: I'm still a little confused why this flow skips over EIP 6963 signaling (which could check for `com.wallet.rdns` by name if multiple extensions are installed) and defaulting to legacy EIP 1193 (which has that famous race condition to inject the provider, and could open a different wallet than intended if another wallet overwrote window.ethereum).

Reviewer 2: it's not really a blocker here, i can just open a separate issue

However, this configuration is not recommended as having multiple wallets in the browser generates a race condition, and can result in false positives where there is a wallet extension, but it does not have the account linked to the domain.

> We recommend using [EIP-6963][] by specifying a wallet rnds in the URI field if possible, to avoid this issue.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it would be smoother to write this section as a 

SHOULD check rdns against 6963 signaling channel first to avoid false-positives or wallet impersonation via protocol pollution

followed by

MUST check window.ethereum if 6963 signal not detected.

This way your own SDK could do it right with 1193 as fallback and lazy implementations or implementations biased towards certain wallets/formfactors would have the option to skimp, but a stronger warning not to?

```

Using this configuration, the application should provide the QR code and [Wallet Connect][] URI for the user to connect with his wallet from any place.

> Such configuration can be useful when the user has their wallet in their mobile device and also on another platform such as a web wallet or desktop application that can receive the QR code or [Wallet Connect][] URI in any way, and they want to decide which one to use at connection time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Such configuration can be useful when the user has their wallet in their mobile device and also on another platform such as a web wallet or desktop application that can receive the [EIP-1328] URI and present it to the end-user as a "[Wallet Connect]"-style QR code or otherwise get informed consent from the user to make the relay connection; this has the added benefit of allowing a manual choice among multiple wallets at connection time.
```

This configuration should never be skipped as it does not impose any platform and requires the user action of connecting from the wallet making this a great last case in the `authFlows` array and behaving as the default when no other authentication flow is useful.

> The only requirement for this configuration to work is that the application supports [Wallet Connect][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only requirement for this configuration to work is that the application supports [ERC-1328](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1328)-conformant relay connections such as [Wallet Connect][].
```
Probably worth generalizing here, since there are actually alternate providers/copycats that use the same QR format but a different network.

## Self-hosting authentication flows

> In case the user does not trust any authentication flow provider to store their info, they can easily host it themselves using a public serverless function and saving its URL in the ENS `authenticator` record.

Reviewer 2: serverless like service worker URI? or a static gitpages website?  I would probably provide an appendix (for each, if both work) because this is a little hard to picture and people deciding whether or not to implement this would probably need to know how foolproof an automation of this self-hosting option is before commiting 😄

> ## Direct authentication flows resolution

Reviewer 2: I'm a little confused on the organization here-- maybe we could move usecases to one `##`-level section and map each `###`-level usecase inside of it explicitly to a `###`-level flow specification inside of a `##`-level Flows section? Not urgent but as this doc gets longer making it more readable/skimmable will help

Reviewer 2: 5 weeks passed and now I don't get my point either

There are a few cases where the `authenticator` record can be set to the authentication flows directly.

- The user wants a truly decentralized solution and does not care about the gas cost of storing lots of data in blockchain; then they can write a stringified version of their authentication flows definition in the `authenticator` text record.
- Application will resolve only its issued names, therefore the authentication flows or their location are likely already known. In such cases the application can use its own backend to resolve `authenticator` instead of ENS or another Crypto Domain system NFT system. Responding with the stringified version of the saves the user of the extra request as it does not provide any useful information.

> # Login With Name Flow

Reviewer 2: similarly, i think it might be clearer to lead with the macro-level flow first and then detail individual flows second and use-cases third?

4. Application filters invalid authentication flows and initiates the one that can be completed which could be by opening a new window in the user's browser to the authenticator URL, triggering the browser wallet, etc.
   If it is not supported due to platform or some other requirement, it can continue with the next one.
5. If no authentication flow can be processed by the application, then display this situation accordingly to the user.
6. Wallet, when needed, will trigger the user for authentication and connection approval before establishing the connection with the wallet.
7. After wallet approves connection, application can match the domain name, the user's wallet address, and an authenticated session to the ones requested previously to validate user is not connecting with another wallet.
8. When everything succeeds, connection should be established between application and the wallet found and triggered under the name provided by the user.

## Connection properties

How the dApp actually requests signatures and talks to the signer will vary depending on the authenticator and the chain being used.

> One option for session management is [Wallet Connect][], where the "authenticated session" returned is actually a WalletConnect session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One option for session management is to create a session with the [CAIP-25][] protocol, where the "authenticated session" token returned is actually a JSON-RPC session token, such as that used by the [Wallet Connect] JSON-RPC relay network.
```

There's other CAIP-25 implementations in the works so important to generalize the terminology here!

Applications may also choose to directly integrate signer SDKs, providing a more streamlined signing flow.

For example, here is how an application would integrate with the Login With Name login process:

> 1. Install [Wagmi][] and [Login With Name WAGMI connector][] packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install connection/authentication libraries, such as the [Wagmi][] and [Login With Name WAGMI connector][] packages.
```
Even tho it's a non-normative example, still good to generalize so that the spec still makes sense years from now, if, say, wagmi gets renamed, splits in two, etc etc.

> 2. Import the `loginWithName` connector from the package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Import the connector method from the package (`loginWithName` in the case of `wagmi`).
```

> 3. Configure the [Wagmi][] config with the `loginWithName` connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Configure the macro library (in this case [Wagmi][]) to use the specific connector (`loginWithName`).
```

   This package provides ENS as a name resolver which can be configured to use `mainnet` or `sepolia`.

> 4. Wrap the app with `WagmiProvider`, pass it the configuration with the loginWithName connector.

Reviewer 2: lol this one is hard for me to generalize off the top of my head but you get the idea

> 5. Upon connection request, the connector will request application for user name. Application can show user an input for it, if not obtained in other way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Upon connection request, the connector will request application for user name. Application can try cached or automatically resolved suggestions first and offer a user confirmation of the suggestion(s), or if none can be resolved without user interventioned, prompt the user for a user name directly.
```
better to be super explicit and phrase as an algorithm

6. Connector will now resolve user name into an address and authentication flows and trying to reach the wallet specified and its accounts.

> 7. After signing in with the wallet. Application can use standard [Wagmi][] hooks like `useAccount`, `useConnect` etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. After signing in with the wallet. Application can use the hooks and abstractions provided by the library, such as `useAccount`, `useConnect` etc in the case of `wagmi`.
```

## Name Resolver systems

For the purposes of this document, we've detailed a flow based on ENS domains.
But this standard is extensible to any name resolution system.
For example, to use Solana domains, you could just replace the ENS name resolver component with a Solana name resolver component.

> The name resolver can also mix several sources, so resolving using several chains is only a matter of combining the specific name resolver for each chain and then combining them with the necessary logic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The name resolver can also mix several sources, so resolving from several chains (even non-EVM chains) is only a matter of combining the specific name resolver for each chain and then combining them with the necessary logic.
```

Reference implementation included in [Login With Name WAGMI connector][] include two name resolvers to showcase different implementations.

> - ENS, compatible with any chain that uses it and likely the one that will be the most common.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ENS, which has wide compatibility with many chains and integrated in many user-facing interfaces across web3.
```
maybe better not to explicit call out market-share, it makes competitors nervous

- Domain Wallets, an online web wallet system compatible with many chains and that already integrates a domain naming system to identify each wallet.

> - An application level mixer name resolver, that combines the two previous ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An application-level multi-resolver, that handles the logic of the two specific resolvers above.
```

> # Rationale

Reviewer 2: it might be good to add a kind of high-level rationale, like "this doesn't compete with other authentication method, it is just an opt-in discovery system that name-controllers can use and that applications can trust to automate one friction point."
it might also be the right section to explain how future authentication methods (#teamWearables) get added to the mix-- followup CAIPs? are you providing a template for those? 😄

> ## Reference Implementation

Reviewer 2: Not to be a stickler, but the two main differences between a sample implementation and a reference implementation is that 
1.) ongoing maintenance - it has to still work for a long time, and you have to remove or rename this section if you stop maintaining it later
2.) all optional extensions supported -- i.e., you have to update (or at least accept PRs) if #teamWearables writes a CAIP a year from now adding logic for a wearables flow.

one dodge if you don't want to commit to that before going final with this CAIP is calling it a "sample implementation" 😅

- [Draft 7 JSON Schema][] - Draft 7 JSON Schema
- [Login With Name WAGMI connector][] - Login With Name WAGMI connector
- [Mobile Wallet Protocol][] - Mobile Wallet specification
- [Wagmi][] - Wagmi SDK and docs
- [Wallet Connect][] - Wallet Connect SDK and docs

> [CAIP-2]: https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[CAIP-2]: https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-2
[EIP-1328]: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1328
```

# Rationale

> The Domain Wallet Authentication standard is designed to provide a user-friendly way to authenticate with web3 applications using easy to remember names, reducing friction for end-users, specially those that are not familiar with the complexities of blockchain addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Domain Wallet Authentication standard is designed to provide a user-friendly way to authenticate with web3 applications using easy-to-remember names, reducing friction for end-users - especially those that are not familiar with the complexities of blockchain addresses.
```

By linking a domain name with authentication methods or providers, users can easily log in to web3 applications without having to remember their wallet provider or address.
Specifying the `authenticator` configuration as a domain name NFT text record allows applications to easily discover and integrate with compatible login methods in a standard way.
Having a chain-agnostic standard enables interoperability between different crypto domain providers and authentication methods.
Providing clear wallet implementer steps and code samples makes it easy for developers to adopt this standard.

The standard is designed to not compete with other authentication methods and as an opt-in discovery system that name-controllers can use and applications can trust to automate one friction point in the web3 login process.
It is designed to be flexible, offering options to both consumers at connection time and developers at configuration time.

> And also to be extensible, allowing for new platforms, connections, and name resolvers to be added as they become available and publicly discussed and adopted by the community in followup CAIPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, it is designed to be extensible, allowing for new platforms, connections, and name resolvers to be added as they become available and publicly discussed and adopted by the community in followup CAIPs.
```
